RYAN GALLAGHER

Media, PA | (610) 731-3822 | Personal: ryan.gallagher900@gmail.com | Work: gallagherj1@leidos.com

SKILLS
Languages: C, Java, Python
Libraries: NumPy, PyTorch, Pandas, Scikit-Learn
Version Control: Git, GitHub
Modeling & Simulation: PIPE-FLO, MATLAB
Computer-Aided Design: AutoCAD, SolidWorks

EXPERIENCE
Leidos, Philadelphia, PA
Mechanical Engineer

May, 2020 - Present
Designed fully autonomous auxiliary systems for U.S. Navy and DARPA unmanned surface vessels.
Designed a wide range of engine systems for U.S. Navy vessels to properly support the ships engines in all

mission scenarios.

Developed digital models of auxiliary systems to evaluate system performance which lead to optimization and

performance improvements.

Providing programmatic and engineering support to the Naval Surface Warfare Center in the development of

the land based test site for the DDG(X) program.

Analyzed data from LPD 17 class ships to prove that a specific modification to the ship would lead to reduced

operating time of the ships engines.

Developed software to assist in the ship design process:

Trained a vanilla feed forward neural network to predict eductor suction flow rates in a

partially-observable environment which allows for the computation of the dewatering rate of a
watertight compartment.

Developed a simple program with an easy-to-use GUI that allows the user to perform a range of

computations.

Developing a reinforcement learning model to arrange equipment on a ship with unique requirements.

Monroe Energy, LLC, Trainer, PA
Mechanical Engineering Intern

May - August, 2016 - 2019

EDUCATION
Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Master of Science, Computer Science
My current path is to study core computer science subjects with a focus in artificial intelligence and machine
learning. Graduating in the spring of 2025.

2021-Present

Cumulative GPA: 3.93

Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA
Bachelor of Science, Mechanical Engineering

Cumulative GPA: 3.39

West Chester University of Pennsylvania, West Chester, PA
Bachelor of Science, Physics
Minor, Mathematics

Cumulative GPA: 3.11

2018 - 2020

2015 - 2018